Track 6. I know it looks odd in the middle of the mountain.
Looking across the lake you will see a distinctively green piece of land, unlike that of its heather-clad
neighbours, which provides us with a window into the past.
People forget how much of a desperate situation that we were in as a nation.
Immediately after the Second World War we were in rationing for many years after the
And so obviously the government had subsidies that promoted the use of every scrap of land
they could possibly get their hands on for the production of food.
With incentives for much greater food production, sheep numbers increased here, as it did across
much of the Welsh hills. And as a young lad, local farmer Arred Davies was responsible
for creating a more productive piece of land to help feed the growing flock.
Yes, well we rotivated it for Mr Jones. He decided that he was taking the sheep up to
the mountains in the summer and there wasn't enough food there. So he decided that we'll
do about 25, 30 acres. So he hired a tractor and we rotivated it. And he put about four
tonnes of lime down per acre. And that's why you see the piece on the top there today
still hasn't grown back because nothing will grow back like the vegetation on the top there
so you've got lime. So you've got to kill the lime in the ground before it comes back.
So that is still today as it was there. I was the one that did that. I know it looks
odd in the middle of the mountain but it was a very good piece for Griffey. He was very
happy with it, isn't it?
When the Wildlife Trust bought Glasslin, they hoped to restore the heather on this patch.
Because of the liming and fertiliser this proved almost impossible. The field has now
been grazed and managed in such a way as to gradually restore some biodiversity. But
it will probably never revert to full heather cover. Some land use changes can be irreversible.
Follow the path to the viewpoint and listen to track seven where the path terminates at
the spectacular edge overlooking a deep ravine on your right. When you've listened to track
seven you need to retrace your steps to the lakeside and turn right.